SPARK JET Workflow 
Trial Balance (TB): 
1. Copy from input form and paste special into new file. 
2. Change the headers to standard headers( JET Header file) 
3. Clean: 
a. Trim clean GL, GL description, Account subtype and FS line column 
b. Convert Opening balance, Closing Balance, Debit and Credit into number columns) 
4. Checkpoints: 
a. G/L & Description should not have blank values, nor duplicates. 
b. Account Subtype should contain Assets, Liabilities, Revenues/Income, and Expenses. 
c. Opening balance should be 0 and equal to the Closing Balance. 
d. Debit and Credit for each entry should be equal. 
e. Total Column Sum of Opening & Closing Balance should be 0. 
f. GL column should be unique(Check after trimclean) 
g. No blanks should be there in GL, GL description, Account subtype and FS line column 
h. Save in .csv format 
Population/GL dump : 
1. Copy from input form and paste normally into new file. 
2. Remove fs line column 
3. Change the headers to standard headers( JET Header file) 
4. Clean: 
a. Trim clean GL, DocumentNo and Type column 
b. Convert Date into dd-MMM-yy format 
c. Convert all the amounts into Number format and remove commas. 
d. Replace comma with space in document header and Text column 
e. Trim clean Document Heade text, Text and Username column 
5. Checkpoints: 
a. No blanks should be there in GL, DocumentNo, Type, EntryDate and Pstng Date 
column. 
b. Sum of “Amount in local cur” should be 0. 
c. Posting Date should have dates within the range of Start and End Date. 
d. For all document numbers, the sum against them should be 0. (Use PIVOT Table) 
e. Save in .csv format 
Once TB and Population is prepared, We will start with Integrity Results followed by Parameter Results. Extra requirement that et can ask for: JET Summary and Control Samples. 
Integrity Results: 
1. Run the code. 
2. Check if the length of G/L is same for Population & Trial Balance files. 
3. Write the output 
4. Fill macro for integrity 
a. Copy the Basic inputs from input form 
b. Paste Test 1,2 and 3 from the extracted files. 
c. Check: 
i. Test_1: G/L present in Trial_Balance but not in Population. Use vlookup to verify 
ii. Test_3: G/L present in Population but not in Trial_Balance.Use vlookup to verify 
iii. Test 2: Amount in local curr of population for the GL should be equal to GL_activity of that GL in IR 2. plot a pivot table using entire population keeping GL as row and amount as values, then vlookup the GL in population amount in local curr with result of pivot. 
iv. Test 4: The sum of count+the sum of GL’s coming in test3 should match exactly 
with count of Population. 
After receiving tickmarks send them for verification. Once its reviewed, start with Parameter Testing. 
Inputs for Parameter: 
1. Ex1: Copy from Inputsheet and trimclean 
2. Ex2: Copy from Inputsheet and trimclean 
3. Ex3: Filter Revenue or Income(If Revenue is not present) in tb, copy those gl codes, and 
trimclean. Threshold should be 0. 
4. Ex4: It has to be an integer 
5. Ex5: Copy from Inputsheet and trimclean 
6. Ex6: Copy from Inputsheet, If the below values are not zero, Give the output file to Shilpa’s team 
7. Ex7: Copy from Inputsheet. Make sure date format is same as that of population i.e. dd-MMM-yy 
8. Ex8: Copy from Inputsheet. 
9. Ex9: Copy from Inputsheet (It has to be an integer). Threshold should be 0. 
10. Ex10: Copy and trim clean. Remove duplicates. 
11. Ex11: Frequency of Book closing should always be Annually. Copy the input (It has to be an 
integer) 
12. Ex12: VLOOKUP all debit and credit entries in TB fs line item. All should match (No #NA). Copy 
and Trimclean 
Parameter Testing: 
Ex1: 1.Run the code. 
2. Sum of Amount in local cur should be 0 and Exception column should only have Exception_no 
and No exception. 
3. Filter Exception1 from Exception and check the distinct Gl if its matching with the inputs 
Ex2: 1.Run the code. 
2. Sum of Amount in local cur should be 0 and Exception column should only have Exception_no 
and No exception. 
3. Filter Exception2 from Exception and check the distinct Gl if its matching with the inputs 
Ex3: 1.Run the code. 
2. Sum of Amount in local cur should be 0 and and Exception column should only have 
Exception_no and No exception. 
3. Filter Exception3 from Exception and check the distinct Gl if its matching with the Revenue or Income GLs from TB 
Ex4: 1.Run the code. 
2. Sum of Amount in local cur should be 0 and Exception column should only have Exception_no. 
3. Copy DocumentNo and Username column from population in new blank sheet. Remove 
duplicates and plot a pivot table: documentno in values and username in rows. Count should match the 
line item of ex4. 
Ex5: 1.Run the code. 
2. Sum of Amount in local cur should be 0 and Exception column should only have Exception_no 
and No exception. 
3. Filter Exception5 from Exception and check the distinct Username if its matching with the 
Inputs 
Ex6: 1.Run the code. In stage 4 Check the start and end date 
2. Sum of Amount in local cur should be 0 and Exception column should only have Exception_no 
and No exception. 
3. Filter Exception6 from Exception and Check the range of dates in Entry date column 
Ex7: 1.Run the code. 
2. Sum of Amount in local cur should be 0 and Exception column should only have Exception_no 
and No exception. 
3. Filter Exception7 from Exception and check the distinct Posting date if its matching with the 
inputs. 
Ex8: 1.Run the code. 
2. Sum of Amount in local cur should be 0 and Exception column should only have Exception_no 
and No exception. 
3. Filter Exception8 from Exception. Convert Amount in local cur to scientific. 10 power inputs 
can be easily identified. 
Ex9: 1.Run the code. 
2. Sum of Amount in local cur should be 0 and Exception column should only have Exception_no. 
Ex10: 1.Run the code. Check for duplicates 
2. Sum of Amount in local cur should be 0 and Exception column should only have Exception_no 
and No exception. 
3. Filter Exception10 from Exception and Match exception text for words in input sheet then 
search in text column of population. 
Ex11: 1.Run the code. In stage 2, replace the date with the closing end date given in input form(Basic 
inputs). 
2. Sum of Amount in local cur should be 0 and Exception column should only have Exception_no. 
3. Check in population for entry date after the financial year end date + x days, for eg year end 
mar 31 2023 and 15 days will check for entries done after 15 april 2023. 
Ex12: 1.Run the code. Check if inputs are present in fs line item. 
2. Sum of Amount in local cur should be 0 and Exception column should only have Exception_no 
and No exception. 
Extra Requirement: 
Control Sample Dump: 
1. ET will give the number of Samples they need. 
2. Run the code for csd 
3. Sum of Amount in local cur should be 0. The distinct Document Number should be equal to the 
number et has provided.